hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day so first things first
let me show you that this weapon is
unloaded and I really like to think
about firearms because there's a lot of
science involved here
what causes muzzle flash all right
number one we have powder inside the
cartridge that's burning that gas is
expanding it has to overcome the bullet
to barrel friction here in the barrel
and it has to accelerate the mass of the
bullet while pushing out the column of
air that was inside the barrel there's a
lot of science there so muzzle flash is
affected by the cartridge load and the
barrel length if you think about it
another thing that comes into play for
muzzle flash is the geometry of the exit
now this is just a plane right circular
cylinder so you get a toroidal vortex
but if you think about something like
this you got a fluted exit here at the
muzzle you'll get more of a starburst
pattern over the past year i've been
playing around and i have perfected i
think a way of taking muzzle flash
photos it involves this which is a
piezoelectric transducer mounted to a
wooden box and I use that to convert
acoustic energy to an electrical pulse
which I then send through a pulse
generator and if you don't know what
this is I'll leave a link in the video
description here so I then take that
output pulse from the pulse generator to
create a flash and take a high-speed
photo now why would I want to do that
you asks answer because it's awesome I
mean look at that but after a while it
gets kind of strange taking experimental
photos of yourself with firearms all the
time so I invited some friends down to
Alabama that you might recognize to take
photos with me okay
okay I changed it and we're gonna see
the kick instead of the muzzle flash I
delayed my flash all right you ready to
kill lights buzz yes sir all right hold
on just just so I know what do you think
you're gonna look like American Hero
all right he'll lights ok ready for the
count
ready
five four three well let's see
Amaya nila good yeah it look real good
over here I'm serious I hate but like it
was a flash and why'd you put me on your
web ride let's check it out let's put
this on your website look I sell posters
this oh my goodness yeah oh oh that's
not what I was expecting you pray the
dark I'm wrong with your camera dude oh
yeah right
there's like two you you like your geta
what's going on there put on your
website I thought it matters man it's a
cameras brother you take that into the
shop okay now we're going to do the same
thing only instead of a revolver or
pistol we're going to use a police a 50
Cal 50 caliber yep so this is Michael
from Vsauce and this is a Safety Harbor
50 Cal it's not the Beowulf round it's
the BMG round so we've got an ar-15
lower safety harbor upper and a whole
lot of awesome armed armed all right
three two one can see the flash go flash
went nice nice so uh that's a little bit
of muzzle flash I mean it's not like an
amazing mount you know I mean that's
probably less than you're used to
I think well look at that look what the
the flash did it made that smoke cloud
more opaque on the bottom right of the
quantum composure hit the blue button
blinking all right come back over here
and I'll put the round in the in the
barrel ready yep all right and three two
one
awesome Wow this is kinda like a man
test if you can do this with your eyes
open look how open your eyes are well
yeah I mean come on so there's a handful
of you out there thinking well why don't
you just take the output from the piezo
and run it through a MOSFET or something
like that you can vary the threshold on
that MOSFET and then send a trigger to
your flash why don't you do that Destin
answer because I like taking pictures of
the bullet itself that's why this thing
has a really really fine temporal
resolution it's like 25 Pico seconds so
another thing you might deal with this
bullet blur bullet blur is calculated by
the velocity of the bullet as it exits
the weapon multiplied times the flash
duration now there's two ways to
decrease the bullet blur the first way
is a faster flash and the second way is
to turn the weapon more acutely so that
you're only dealing with the cosine of
that bullet velocity rather than the
full bullet velocity now that's cool but
there's something you have to do if you
do that you have to use a remote trigger
because one of the major rules of gun
safety is never be downrange of a weapon
so make sure you do that use common
sense anytime you do experimentation
like this so there you are now you're
trained on how to take really cool
muzzle flash photos do not do this if
you and everyone around you is not
heavily trained in weapons safety even
if you are trained just keep in mind
accidents do happen
so use common sense that is amazing I
didn't think we could do that I do not
think this would stop the bullet they
did get smarter every day I'll subscribe
immediately
member